# dalmolingroup/euryale: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline. Most of the plots are taken from the MultiQC report, which summarises results at the end of the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

<!-- TODO nf-core: Write this documentation describing your workflow's output -->

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps (steps in **italics** don't run by default):

- [Kaiju](#kaiju) - Taxonomically classify reads or contigs
- [Krona](#krona) - Visualize the taxonomic classification for each sample.
- [Diamond](#diamond) - Alignment reads and contigs against a reference database (such as NCBI-nr).
- [Annotate](#annotate) - Functional annotation of alignment matches.
- [MEGAHIT](#megahit) - Assembled contigs.
- [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Aggregate report describing results and QC from the whole pipeline
- [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

### Kaiju

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `taxonomy/`
  - `${sample}.tsv`: Kaiju classification output.
  - `${sample}.txt`: Kaiju2Table TSV output.

</details>

[Kaiju](https://github.com/bioinformatics-centre/kaiju/) is a
software to perform fast taxonomic classification of metagenomic sequencing reads using a protein reference database.

### Krona

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `taxonomy/`
  - `${sample}.html`: Krona visualization for the sample.

</details>

- [Krona](https://github.com/marbl/Krona/) is a tool to interactively explore metagenomes and more from a web browser.

### Diamond

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `alignment/${sample}/`
  - `${sample}.txt`: Alignment matches in blast tabular output format.
  - `${sample}.log`: DIAMOND execution log.

</details>

- [DIAMOND](https://github.com/bbuchfink/diamond) is an accelerated BLAST compatible local sequence aligner.

### Annotate

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `functional/${sample}/`
  - `${sample}_annotated.txt`: Alignment matches annotated to chosen
    functional database (e.g. GO).

</details>

- [Annotate](https://github.com/dalmolingroup/annotate) is a tool to annotate each query using the best alignment for which a mapping is known.

### MEGAHIT

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `assembly/${sample}/`
  - `${sample}.contigs.fa.gz`: Contigs assembled for the sample.

</details>

- [MEGAHIT](https://github.com/voutcn/megahit) is an ultra-fast and memory-efficient (meta-)genome assembler

## _DIAMOND database_

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `diamond_db/`
  - `${database_name}.dmnd`: DIAMOND database for the reference fasta file.

</details>

- This output is present if you add the `--save_db` parameter.

- [DIAMOND](https://github.com/bbuchfink/diamond) is an accelerated BLAST compatible local sequence aligner.

### MultiQC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `multiqc/`
  - `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
  - `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
  - `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

</details>

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline QC from supported tools e.g. FastQC. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
